In this demo we're going to take a look at network interfaces and addresses.
So let's start off by looking at what an EC2 instance has assigned when we're
looking at the test environment for Wired Brain Coffee.
So into EC2, now let's select the running instance.
So we can see the web server is running,
and we can see that there are addresses assigned to this system,
it's got a public IP, 51.
145.
72.
165, doesn't have an IP version 6, has private DNS,
and has a private IP address.
Assigned by Amazon in this case, we are running in the default VPC,
so it's all automated.
What if I wanted to do more?
What if I wanted to add an additional network interface adapter to this system?
What if I wanted to add an elastic IP address to this system?
What if I wanted to add a NIC to the SQL box and
add two NICs on the private side?
So there's a couple of things we can do.
Let's start off with the web server and add an additional
network interface adapter for the web server.
So if we scroll down under Network and Security,
there's a couple of interfaces already defined.
We know they're all in the same VPC, we know they're in the same zone,
we know they have security groups and we know they're primary network adapters.
Let's click on one of these and we can say okay, that's the SQL Server.
So let's add a new network interface.
Description, this is going to be for the load balancer,
so we will call this Nginx NIC.
The subnet, it's going to be on the public side,
and I need a security group,
I'm going to select my default VPC security group and say Create.
So there is my Nginx NIC, I can add a tag into this as well,
and what do I want to do with this NIC?
I want to attach it and I want to attach it to a particular instance,
the web server, the load balancer.
We're looking at this for Wired Brain Coffee and doing some tests.
Now associate an address.
So you're on the public subnet so if you want to associate an
address that's going to be an elastic IP address,
this is a static address that's in my account that I can
choose to use and associate it with a particular NIC
attached to a particular instance.
So let's cancel out of here for a second and take a look at my elastic IPs.
So you can see I've got one in my account,
I'm paying a bit of money for it per month and I can use it and move it around.
So I have some nice features for DR and we will go back to our NIC
and say yes we would like to associate an address,
there's the 34.
197, that's what we want to do, and the associate to that private IP address.
Now notice I also have the ability of detaching.
Alright so I can detach,
and what I could do then is attach to move it over to this web server.
So note that I can move the network interface and the properties
associated with that network interface will move with it.
For now I'm just going to put it back where it was.
Okay so there's some work with the addresses.
Let's now add a NIC for my SQL box.
So create another network interface.
Description, I can have a second NIC, subnet, private subnet.
RDSSecurityGroup.
Let's go back up to my dashboard, look at my instances,
the test NGINX box, you can see I have my public and my private association.
I have my SQL box, two network interfaces,
the eth0 that I can't change, and the eth1,
which I've added in for this system and for the NGINX load balancer.
Alright we're all set. So there's a look at network interfaces and addresses.